>> Brian Holt: The next thing I'm gonna
show you is you don't necessarily have to
have a boolean inside of
those if statements, right?
So I'm gonna say if 2 + 2, and
then I'm gonna put triple equals here, 4.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's talk about triple equals here.
Above here, if I say something
like const myVariable = 10.
Notice I'm using one
equal sign right here.
Now, in your brain,
when you are thinking about programing,
I want you to rewrite this.
Don't think of this as is equal to.
Think of this as is assigned, right?
My variable is assigned 10, right?
So if you have one equal signed,
that means it's assigned.
If you put triple equals here
you are asking a question.
Is 2 + 2 equal to 4?
So this is actually being reduced down
to a boolean of true or false, right.
Is this equal to this.
So here I can say console.log.
>> Brian Holt: Array [LAUGH] I think
that the fundamental principles and
mathematics still hold true.
That's what I have in my notes, but
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Math still works.
>> Brian Holt: Else console.log("Uh,
panic?").
>> Brian Holt: So
you can get rid of that up at the top.
>> Brian Holt: So now if I save this and
refresh over here you can say
hurray if math still works, right?
>> Brian Holt: So why triple?
That's another question that
people would typically ask.
If you do double equals here,
>> Brian Holt: It still works.
The reason why I'm imploring you to learn
to do with triple equals is because
double equals has some funny
business that is does, that for
the most part you don't want it to do.
There's a thing called coercion
that's going to try and convert.
For example,
if I had here instead of four,
this is the number four,
if I had the string four here.
Notice that this is between double quotes,
so
now that this has become a string,
this will still work,
but if I put triple equals here,
it does not work.
When you put triple equals, it does
not try and coerce one into the other.
Now coercion in JavaScript
is complicated business.
We'll put it that way and
it's not something we really
want to get into today.
Suffice to say, for
the most part if you're doing coercion,
usually you don't want to.
There's an entire Frontend Masters
course on it from Kyle Simpson.
If it's interesting to you definitely
go check it out, but for now,
just follow what I'm telling you and
just stick with triple equals
until you understand what
exactly what's going on there.
You'll save yourself a lot of heartache.
I promise.